The Joe Rogan experience. For people don't know where to live below zero it's.
Um, this crazy show where people live, you know,
in this very rugged terrain and you, you, uh,
you had the most interesting life because you,
when you would live up at the cabin, you would live by yourself,
just you in a very small room, just a hunting, all your food and,
and hiking around. You didn't use any vehicles.
And he just kind of had a rifle and a frying pan and a pot and a
place to sleep. And he seemed really happy up there.
Oh yeah, I'm having a good time.
I just wanted to strip everything away that I could dispense with, you know, um,
I got the idea.
I wanted to go back to live in like a hunter gatherer back in 97.
I just got this idea. I was actually living in a tent in the woods,
down in Vermont and having such a good time. I thought,
where could I go with this? What could I do with this kind of lifestyle?
And I decided to move to the Brooks range of Alaska. What.
Was it like? So you, what made you go live in a tent in the first place?
I just always liked the outdoors. I just love nature. And you know,
I was doing other things too,
but there was this one summer when I was in my twenties,
when I found this really cool spot in the woods. And I thought, Hey,
I'll set up a teepee over there and I'll just hang out there this summer as much
as I can. And I just had a great time. So I started thinking more about,
you know, instead of just living in the woods,
kind of as a recreational thing, I started thinking about, Hey,
how could you actually make a life living like this? You know,
get up every morning with the animals around the sky, the water.
Um, I started thinking about,
I started reading anthropological stuff about hunter gatherers that summer,
and I started getting ideas and, uh, it,
it took me seven years to make it to the Brooks range and to get out to that
lake that you've seen on TV and to actually start living that way.
It took me a few years just to organize my life enough, to move up to Alaska.
And then once I got to Alaska,
I was kinda in Fairbanks for about four years before I could really spend long
periods of time in the wilderness. But once I got it all arranged,
I just drove up the haul road,
which is this industrial road that goes up to the north slope oil fields.
It's very, very, uh, unimproved in areas,
just gravel road for hundreds of miles.
I drove about 300 miles north of Fairbanks.
I parked my van and I walked 60 miles off of that road by myself,
out into the wilderness and started figuring out how to live off the land.
How did you know where to go? Oh,
I had found the spot a few years before I had actually found that
lake flying around in a little Bush plane, because part of my plan originally,
when I formulated this idea back in Vermont, I thought I'll become a Bush pilot.
That'll be a thing I can do in Alaska. You know? Um,
so I was thinking about starting an air taxi service. I'd been studying,
flying for fears. As soon as I got my private license,
I jumped in the plane and flew to Alaska. But then when I got up there,
I was getting my commercial and all that. And in the meantime,
as much as I could, I'd go out and explore, look around.
And I discovered this lake one day when I was flying across part of the Brooks
range. And I set up a little tent camp there that summer 2000,
but it took me another four years before I could actually walk out there and
start living 60 miles walking. Yeah,
that's a long way. Hey,
I walked the length of Vermont when I was 13 years old.
I walked you really Massachusetts Canada. But, um,
the difference is when you're 13. Yeah,
I actually started when I was 12 gave up the next I was with
my uncle.
We went for about a week and then the next summer I convinced my mom to drive me
back down and drop me off alone where we had given up the year before. But, uh,
that's just you by yourself. Yeah. When I was 13, I was alone,
but that's a trail that's called the long trail and it's marked,
there's a little paint mark, you know,
on the trees up ahead of you telling you where to go. Yeah.
Brooks range. You were 13. Yeah. That's a little kid. Yeah.
And your.
Mom's like, go, go ahead. It was amazing. I was given a lot of freedom, I guess.
So, I mean, I'd already quit school by the time I was 13, you know, really?
I went back a few times, but uh, yeah. I mean, I, I never,
I never finished the, uh, fourth grade tell you the truth. But I went back,
I went to one year of high school. Eventually.
I was curious about what's going on over there.
Did you ever get a GED or any of that jazz? No.
I never needed a GED for it than I did, but I went to ninth grade and uh,
you know, I did my own thing. After that, you.
Seem like an educated guy. Do you, are you self-educated if I got.
Any education it's self-educated yet. And I just,
I like to be learning all the time, whatever I'm doing, I like to learn,
but if I'm making a TV show, I want to learn everything I can about it.
You know, if I'm flying airplanes,
I want to learn a lot more than I need to know to do what I'm doing. Um,
and it's the same thing with, uh, going out there and living,
just learning as much as I could. There's so much, so much to learn out there.
Now, how long did it take.
You when you're 13 and like, what did you do for food?
Oh, well that was easy bite at the store and carried on your back.
I never hunted when I was a kid. Oh, okay. I mean,
I remember going once or twice with some uncles of mine, we never got anything.
I never, I didn't have any real hunting experience until that summer.
I walked out to the.
Lake. Really? Yeah. So.
You really just had a rifle and I didn't quite know what you were doing.
I'd read a lot about what to do.
The biggest thing.
Joe, I got out there, I had two months food.
I left two months worth of food at the lake. Okay. To get me started.
And I walked out there in July.
Pause you for a second. When you say two months food, like, what did you bring?
Oh, I had left, um, basic stuff, grains leg, you know, some beans,
some rice to stuff that you knew you could serve a jug of oil, you know,
basic some flour was out there.
And I left that the year before, when I had a plane, it,
my whole plan to become an air taxi and, and do the Bush flying. I,
at that time,
I realized doesn't go together with living off the land in the wilderness.
So I actually sold that plane that summer and drove up the road and
walked out to where I had left these supplies a year before and decided that's
where I really wanted to just go live off the land. I don't,
I don't need an airplane anymore. I don't need to fly. So, um,
when I got out there, I had,
there was a 55 gallon barrel and it had some food and it had a few supplies.
I had a tent, you know, it was insulated, but it,
it hadn't really become a cabin yet. It's the same place that you've seen.
But it, it was just a little less,
little less solid back then. And the cabin has a stands. You built? Yeah. Well,
I flew in the plywood and stuff. And then when I get out there, I put, I put,
I had a Walton originally. I had had a tent camp out there since 2000.
I built plywood cabin under the wall. Basically. That's what I did. But, um,
when I got out there, I had some food, I had my rifle,
I had fishing equipment. I started living.
I started improving that little cabin, you know,
and by September I ran out of food, like completely. I had one bag of flour,
this little plastic bag of flour.
It was all I had left when it got cold enough that I figured I could start moose
hunting. So that was my plan. I got to get a moose.
Why did you have to wait until the car called this regulations.
Bugs? You've got to preserve the meat. I've got no freezer. I had,
you know, I had to wait until like I still do. When I hunt moose,
my moose hunting season starts the day.
I can leave a piece of scrap of meat out on the ground all afternoon and go look
at it. There's no flags.
On it. Hmm. That makes sense.
Wow. That's crazy. So you have to, other than the rifle aspect of it, I mean,
you're really living like a primitive hunter gatherer. I.
Would have used a bow and arrow. If I thought I could have survived,
there's your spot right there. There it is. Well, if you.
Only want to gather, meet the rifles, the way to go, you know,
I was always trying to just.
Let go of everything I could, I could do without,
but I never got to the point where I thought I could make it with just a bow and
arrow by myself. You know,
people used to survive out there before they even had archery.
They survived out there with Spears,
but there were groups of people they would build a fence,
they would corral animals.
They would put nooses up between trees to get a moose, things like that.
There's also probably a lot more animals.
I don't know that to be the case. Maybe not Alaska.
We'll ask it. Probably not too much different, but throughout north America,
like if you listened to, or you read rather the, uh, tales of, um, um,
uh, Boone and not Boone and Crockett, uh, the Lewis and Clark,
when they made their way across the country, like they found a lot of game.
There was a lot of animals. I mean, it was just an abundance of animals.
And then of course, if they ran into Buffalo,
obviously there was millions and millions of Buffalo.
Unbelievable. That's the difference between Alaska and down here,
down here with modified everything with paved,
everything over Alaska is still wild.
Northern Alaska is the most wild place left in this country.
That's why I went there. It's barely.
This country too. I mean, it's not even attached.
Yeah. Some people don't really think of Alaska, the United States. It's not.
But it's not. It's a frozen Puerto Rico. It's way up there.
It's not even connected to us. It's one of those weird ones, but it is why.
And, and you see actually, that's what drew me to it.
The first time I ever saw the Brooks range was years before I moved to Alaska,
I was on a flight. I used to get jobs as a courier. When I was in my twenties,
I was real interested in traveling. And I found out this way,
I could travel all over the world as a courier. So I would go to New York city.
I'd get these jobs as a freelance career and take off to wherever they need me
to go.
And one time I got this flight to Tokyo and I'm flying right across the whole
length of the Brooks range. Great circle.
Route New York Tokyo takes you right across it.
600 miles of mountains from the Canadian border over to the
Chuckchi sea, across from Siberia.
And there's one road across it in 600 miles. And I was just glued to the window,
the whole flight, looking at that. Wow. I thought someday,
I'm going to go check that place out on the ground. You know? I mean,
it's incredible when you see those mounds that they're big nuns,
they up to 9,000 feet high and that one road is the haul road. Yeah.
Also known as the Dalton highway that was built in 1974,
just to construct the Alaska pipeline to get to the oil up at Pluto bay on the
north slope, the oil fields up there,
they built that road in one summer's amazing story in itself. Wow. Yeah,
they started in April and they had the whole thing done in one summer from, uh,
the Yukon river all the way up to the Arctic ocean.
So when you got down to one bag of flour, yeah.
Was there a part in your head where you're like, what, what am I doing here?
No, I never wondered what I was doing. No, no. Oh. It always felt right for you.
Oh yeah. What I was doing there is looking for a most.
Yeah. And you already had.
That whole shed built for meat. Oh, there's no shed for me.
What's that thing that you do? Well,
you have everything like the sock covered up the sod house. Yeah. No.
That came. That came like four years later. Yeah, no, no,
I didn't have that yet. I didn't even have a meet Paul. Really? No.
I built to meet Paul after I got the most,
the same maple that's still there that you've seen is 20 feet high.
And I built that with a piece of parachute cord and a,
a little block and tackle that you can fit in the Palm of your hand that just
had parachute cord it. And I, I, I had to get, well that big it's,
I'm actually talking about that platform. That's right beside the meat pole.
Right. Um, the meat poles, 20 feet high, the plastic explained.
To you. I see what, what a meat poll is so that they know just.
To.
That's like my freezer. I don't have a freezer out there,
so I just hang up and I live in the freezer.
The Arctic's your freezer from September until usually
sometime in may.
I can keep meat with out anything other than the open air around it.
Yeah. That's a.
Long time. It's most of the year. Yeah. Lakes.
Only thought out from June until most years around the
1st of October freezes over.
So you get about four months old and water by eight months of ice. So.
You're basically living off of fish for those months.
No. Um, there,
there was one year when I caught a lot of fish there.
Um, cause I stayed there. I stayed there one time,
15 months without going to town and by yourself, no,
uh, I was only there for four months totally by myself,
but I'm not totally crazy. I went back out and,
and I got my woman to come in there with me after she's told me.
Maybe it's true. I got divorced from her later. But, um, but, uh,
actually, no.
I S most of the time I've been out there, I've had a family, uh,
with me most of the time I went out there, uh, you know,
I actually was, uh, I, I got married. Um, before I went out there,
I went out there for four months. I went back, I got Sylvia, my ex-wife. And,
um, we were out there for years, you know, we would go back and forth.
We would go to Fairbanks for six months or sometimes a year.
We'd go out there for a year, you know, we would, um, go back and forth.
And then what happened was, uh, after we split up,
I was out there one winter, totally alone.
And that's when I got on the show right after that, um, it all just,
the timing was perfect. I'm up there by myself.
I'm living real close to the land. I mean,
I'm sleeping under caribou hides that winter and I'm eating just caribou.
Like I had a little tiny bit of store-bought food with me, hardly anything.
And I hadn't seen a human being in four and a half months. Wow.
And the executive producer of the show flies from LA all the way up there to
meet me and lands. And it was no,
you were there the summer before I was in fair banks.
And for a few years,
I was trying to figure out how can I share this stuff I'm experiencing?
Cause it's incredible. I'm just,
I'm realizing that this is not ordinary life anymore.
And there are a lot of people that don't even realize what's going on out here
in the middle of the wilderness. So I'm talking to people,
I'm trying to find some kind of a filmmaker or somebody.
And I don't know anything about it,
but I'm trying to find somebody to help me do something like a documentary or
something like this. So my friends know this,
somebody handed me an email address. They said, you should write to this person.
They're looking for people like you. They told me it was a filmmaker.
Didn't know what it was. I sent off an email. I said, hi, you know,
I live in the wilderness.
I'd like to talk to you about if you're interested in making a documentary.
And few days later,
I started walking from the road again to get back to my camp.
So I left them a satellite phone number. I said,
this is my only means of communication. It's a satellite phone.
I don't keep it turned on because it runs on a battery.
You can send a message to it. I check it once in a while.
It's basically for emergencies only, but you can communicate with me this way.
And I put that in the email, how to do it. Well,
that whole winter went by eight months. Went by. I hadn't heard from them.
I'd forgotten about that person. I'd send emails to a lot of people.
And then one day I turned on my phone. There's this message there.
They want to talk to me.
So I called them up and we start talking and they tell me it's
a reality TV show.
And I had literally never seen a reality TV show in my life.
I hadn't watched TV for many, many years. And.
So you had no idea what that even meant. Not.
Really. I talked to them about that, but they mostly didn't.
They mostly want to talk about me, not about them.
And I kept trying to get information, like, what is this.
Exactly right. You know? And uh, because.
I kept, I remember I kept saying what I really want to do.
I want to talk about nature out here. And they're like, well,
we don't want to make a show about nature. We'll make a show about you.
But in any case,
I learned what reality TV was over the next few months,
because after we talked for two weeks,
the executive producer flew all the way up from LA.
He flew from Fairbanks on a little ski plane out there to meet me.
And he landed and met me to make sure that I wasn't the biggest bullshitter
they'd ever talked to. They had no idea. I mean,
they're just talking about a satellite phone and I was telling them, okay,
you know, right now I'm living off these two caribou. I killed last month. And,
and they came out there and they saw that it was real. And they were like, yeah,
we want you in the show. Wow. And a few weeks later we were making TV.
So they had to come out just to check, to see if your story was legit. Yeah.
And then to come and get actually lake. Yeah. The actual lake where you living.
I couldn't give him references. I mean, I was all on out there. Wow.
That must've been very surreal for you. The guy lands out there,
some Hollywood Jack off.
Comes out to visit you. Great. It was again.
As solitary. I hadn't seen anybody four and a half months. That's a long time.
I mean, with all due respect, I just mean a Hollywood person, you know, like a,
an LA television producer flies out to mint to meet you when you're doing your
wilderness thing. Like what a convergence of worlds.
There's no world that's more removed from the world of living by yourself
in the woods. Then Hollywood, that's like the most opposite of it.
In some ways, but we're all human. Yes. We're all human.
And we had a great afternoon together. We had an awesome afternoon together.
Take them and show them your routes and all the places where you go.
It was in April. I had a packed.
Trail on the snow. That's still winter where I am.
And I took him out for a walk up onto a mountain side.
So he could get a view of the whole country there.
And it just happened that the first grisly
track I'd seen that spring that had come out of hibernation was right there in
front of us,
that the bear had hit my trail and was walking down my PAC trail right in
front of us. It was that day. Totally fresh track.
So that was exciting. And did you see the bear? No,
we didn't see the bear. It had headed up the mountain. Um,
it was walking a lot faster than we were, but we saw
a lot of, uh, beautiful things that day. And you know,
he shot a sizzle reel and he brought it back for the network to see and.
Everything. Wow. So what were you thinking when the guy left? Like.
I was thinking, is this going to Dallas fun? That was cool.
I got to show somebody around, out here, you know,
because other than my immediate family that had been there with me,
my wife and we had two kids by then, you know that, uh,
they hadn't been there since the year before,
but nobody had ever seen it with me. I,
I never had had anybody out there to, to walk.
And we were all these years by the time this happened,
I'd been out there for nine years off and on, you know,
I'd had my camp out there since 2000 actually.
And I'd been kind of living there at least half the time for nine years.
I'd gotten to know that country so well, all the mountains I'd walked some days,
20, 25 miles, over 5,000 foot mountains and everything hunting, sheep,
hunting caribou, and just looking around trapping sometimes. Um,
but always alone. Why was this life.
So appealing to you from such a young age? Like the fact that you're,
you're 13 years old, you make that walk all the way across Fremont.
I mean, that's, that's a long walk.
You know,
I grew up in a small town right near the base of the highest mountain in
Vermont, Mount Mansfield.
And some of my earliest memories are looking at that mountain wanting to go up
there. And I got to the top of mountain by the time I was nine,
but it took me nine years to get up there. Things take time. It's.
Always been something that's, you're drawn to. I guess,
some reason you're drawn to being in the wilderness. I'm drawn to a lot.
Of things, but the wilderness, definitely one of them, when.
You get there, do you feel like everything's right?
Like when you finally got to your place and you finally started when you walked
60 miles out there and started living,
did you finally feel like I'm in my spot? This is where I'm supposed to be.
Oh yeah. Like you knew, you know.
I had literally been planning to do exactly that in the Brooks range for
seven years. Like that's what I was doing every day was preparing to do that.
Wow.
But what was it about it that was so compelling?
Like why was that a thing that you were so drawn to?
Because when I was living in the woods before that,
when I was in the TP in Vermont, every single day,
I'd wake up with a smile on my face. I'd just be excited. What was going on?
Get up, look out, see the fog coming up off the water on the lake,
you know? Oh, wow. There's something over there. There's a loon, whatever it is.
There's um, I was just excited by what was going on out there.
And I just felt really connected to it.
And there are a lot of really positive aspects to being out in the woods.
I mean, just the physical part. Like I like to stay in shape.
I like to be active and you can't help, but be active out there. You can't help,
but stay in shape. Um, I like the diet. I mean,
once I started eating animals, I killed myself and food that I collected myself,
you know, plant food too. It was, um,
that was the best food I ever ate in my life.
When I ate that first moose I killed. I mean,
I never had anything better.
It's a crazy way to live, man.
It's interesting because most people would tell you, Hey, you gotta get a job.
You gotta, you gotta be a normal person. You can't just go out there and live.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, and that's what I told him. I said,
I'm going to make a career out of this now.
I didn't know exactly how it was going to play out. Um,
but I was always confident that it was a valuable thing to do and that it would
not only benefit me,
but in the long run that I would be able to share this with people and that it
would pay off. And it did. It just, uh, took time.